# How to connect your Carbon

Carbon offers three ways to connect to your computer:

[Image 1: USB and Wi-Fi Connections]

USB cable connection
Wi-Fi Connection - Carbon Network
Wi-Fi Connection - Workplace local network

## USB Connection

In this method, the connection between the machine and the computer is established directly through a USB cable.

The latest version of Carbon Studio already automatically includes the USB Cable Driver. However, if you notice that the USB Cable is not recognized in any of your computer's ports while following the procedure, download the CH340 Driver and install it by clicking "Install".

[Image 2: USB Driver Installation]

* Connect the USB cable between the computer and the Gadget.

[Image 3: USB Cable]

* Open your computer's Device Manager and check if Carbon is recognized in the COM Ports. To view the recognized devices, click on the arrow and check if "USB SERIAL CH340" appears.

[Image 4: Recognition Verification]

* Confirm if the "Connection Data" icon is green in Carbon Studio. If it is, you are already connected to the Gadget via USB Cable!

[Image 5: Connection Verification]

## Wi-Fi Connection - Carbon Network

In this method, you connect the computer to Carbon through a Wi-Fi network created by the machine itself.

Advantage: Mobility, no need for cables. Stable Wi-Fi network.

Disadvantage: Your computer loses access to the workplace Wi-Fi network because it needs to connect to the network generated by Carbon, which does not provide Internet access, so your computer will be without internet.

[Image 6: Gadget Wi-Fi Network]

* Find the "Carbon" network in your computer's list of available networks.

* The password for this network is always "C4rbon!!".

[Image 7: Gadget Wi-Fi Network Password]

* Check if the "Connection Data" icon is green in Carbon Studio. If it is, you are already connected to your machine via Carbon Wi-Fi!

[Image 8: Connection Verification]

## Wi-Fi Connection - Workplace local network
In this method, you connect Carbon to your workplace's Wi-Fi network.

Important: To configure the connection to the workplace Wi-Fi network, you need to initially connect via USB Cable or Carbon Wi-Fi.

Advantage: Mobility, no need for cables. Allows internet access through the workplace Wi-Fi network. Facilitates the connection of different computers to the machine.

Disadvantage: This connection depends on the workplace Wi-Fi signal and can be more unstable.

[Image 9: Wi-Fi Configuration]

* In Carbon Studio, click on the Settings icon in the Control Bar.

* In the Wi-Fi tab, click Refresh. Carbon Studio will show all available connections in your location.

* Choose your workplace's Wi-Fi network and click Connect.

* Enter your network password if prompted, and click Apply.

* If you were connected to the Carbon Wi-Fi network to configure your machine, you can now return to your local network.

* Check if the "Connection Data" icon is green in Carbon Studio. If yes, the machine is connected to your Local Network.

[Image 10: Connection Verification]

<!--
Watch the video on how to connect your Gadget:

[Link to the video]
-->

In this article, we learned the ways Carbon can communicate with the computer and observed the advantages and disadvantages of each. Now you can evaluate which connection best suits you and your needs.

Had any problems connecting? How about checking out these troubleshooting articles divided by connection type.

* Troubleshooting - [USB Cable]
* Troubleshooting - [Carbon Wi-Fi Network]
* Troubleshooting - [Workplace Wi-Fi Network]

[USB Cable]: https://edgarmata.github.io/Carbon-FAQS/studio/conex%C3%A3o-computador/#conexao-via-usb

[Carbon Wi-Fi Network]: https://edgarmata.github.io/Carbon-FAQS/studio/conex%C3%A3o-computador/#conexao-wi-fi-rede-carbon

[Workplace Wi-Fi Network]: https://edgarmata.github.io/Carbon-FAQS/studio/conex%C3%A3o-computador/#conexao-wi-fi-rede-local-de-trabalho
